---
title: 'Schrödinger Bridge Problem'
date: 2022-06-19
permalink: /posts/Bridge/
tags:
  - Brownian bridge
  - Schr\"{o}dinger bridge
  - Optimal transport
  - Fokker Planck equation
  - Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman PDE
  - Stochastic optimal control
  - Feynman Kac
---


The classical Schrödinger Bridge Problem (SBP) have found interesting applications in deep generative models [1,2,3] and financial mathematics [4,5,6]. The iterative nature in solving this problem shows a great potential to further accelerate the training for score-based generative models, although the later is already the state-of-the-art methods [\[Image Generation\]](https://paperswithcode.com/sota/image-generation-on-cifar-10).

The most striking feature of this algorithm is its deep mathematical connections to stochastic optimal control, optimal transport, fluid dynamics [7], and DNN approximations. As such, we have sufficient tools to understand the underlying theories. The following is a short note to summarize this problem: [\[A short introduction on SBP\]](https://github.com/WayneDW/Notes/blob/master/SBP_problem.pdf).

### Reference


[1] Song, Sohl-Dickstein, Kingma, Kumar, Ermon, Poole. Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations. ICLR'21.

[2] Chen, Liu, Theodorou. Likelihood Training of Schrödinger Bridge using Forward-Backward SDEs Theory. ICLR'22.

[3] De Bortoli, Thornton, Heng, Doucet. Diffusion Schrödinger Bridge with Applications to Score-Based Generative Modeling. NeurIPS'21.

[4] Nutz, Wiesel, Zhao. Limits of Semistatic Trading Strategies. 2022

[5] Nutz, Wiesel, Zhao. Martingale Schrödinger Bridges and Optimal Semistatic Portfolios. 2022

[6] Pierre Henry-Labordere. From (martingale) Schrödinger bridges to a new class of stochastic volatility model. 2019

[7] Chen, Georgiou, Pavon. Stochastic control liaisons: Richard Sinkhorn meets Gaspard Monge on a Schroedinger bridge. SIAM Review 2021.

