---
title: 'Blogging for Self-Reflection and Sharing'
subtitle: Engaging in blog writing enriches my thinking and fosters the exchange of knowledge.
date: 2023-05-23
permalink: /posts/why_blog/
---



During the early stages of my Ph.D. career, I found myself overwhelmed as I delved into the intricate and enigmatic connections found within stochastic differential equations, partial differential equations, dynamical systems, functional analysis, and geometry. I was on the verge of giving up until I came across a series of enlightening slides and blogs that brought clarity to my thoughts. 

<!-- After graduation, I decided to maintain a blog to record my thoughts. I believe writing blogs has a few clear advantages. -->



### Self-Reflection

Feynman ever said that 

> What I Cannot Create, I Do Not Understand.

Many intriguing formulas and theorems may seem deceptively simple solely based on their names, but their true essence is revealed when we meticulously write them down and analyze the details step by step. Maintaining a blog not only helps me organize my thoughts but also allows me to delve deeper into my understanding.

### Blogs v.s. Papers

The pursuit of knowledge has motivated me to utilize publishing as a means of continuous learning. However, the pressures associated with publishing and the emphasis on novelty sometimes lead papers astray from their original purpose.

<!-- : solve problems using appropriate tools or interpretations. The varying interpretations of what is considered "appropriate" ultimately contribute to the overwhelming volume of publications in the world {% cite slowed_science %}. -->


If we confine ourselves solely to reading published works, we may find ourselves lost amidst an ocean of countless novel ideas, while the most crucial ones remain inadequately comprehended by young researchers like myself. Inspired by the numerous enlightening blogs, which I listed in my github page, I decided to maintain a blog to express appreciation for renowned findings. 

<!-- My Blogs may not generate new knowledge, but rather devote to disseminating the seldom-explored paths discovered by others.  -->

<!-- ### Knowledge Sharing

I am not generating new knowledge, but rather devoted to disseminating the seldom-explored paths discovered by others. I believe that valuable pathways deserve acknowledgment from a broader audience through various mediums like textbooks, publications, and blogs. Over the course of China's millennia-long history, countless invaluable customs have been lost simply due to insufficient awareness. -->


#### Acknowledgement

Thank you, Nan Jiang and Gregory Gundersen, for your assistance and suggestions in building this cool website.